Now flanked by his siblings, Zeus was ready to wage war on Cronos. He descended into Tartarus, where the Centimanes and the Cyclopes were imprisoned. He freed them in return for their alliance against Cronos, which they freely gave: The Centimanes used their hundred hands to throw giant boulders against Cronos while the Cyclopes were the first ones to forge lightning and thunder for Zeus. Except for Themis, the goddess of justice, and Prometheus, the other Titans were allied with Cronos, and the great war of the gods, the Titanomachy, began. The war lasted ten years, and there are several spinoff myths related to it. In the end, Zeus’ side won. There are different versions of how Zeus, now the victorious new king of the gods, treated the Titans. One version is that he threw the Titans in Tartarus and had the Centimanes guard them. Another was that he gave them clemency. Once won, Zeus and his brothers Poseidon and Hades divided the world between them. Poseidon took the sea and water realms, Hades took the underworld, and Zeus the sky and air. The earth was declared common to all the gods. Theseus was the son of King Aegeus and Poseidon, as they both made love to his mother Aethra on the same night. Aethra raised Theseus in Troezin, in the Peloponnese. She told him to go to Athens to find his father, without telling him who it was, when he was strong enough to lift an enormous boulder. Underneath it, he found a sword and sandals that belonged to Aegeus. Theseus took them and decided to travel to Athens on foot. The journey was perilous because the road was full of terrible bandits who prayed on the travelers who did not go by boat. Theseus killed every bandit and other peril he encountered, making the roads to Athens safe. The journey is called The Six Labors of Theseus, where he killed five terrible bandits and a giant pig monster. When he arrived in Athens, Aegeus didn’t recognize him, but his wife Medea who was a witch, did. She didn’t want Theseus taking the throne instead of her son, and she tried to poison him. At the last moment, Aegeus recognized the sword and sandals Theseus was wearing and he stopped him from drinking from a poisoned cup. He banished Medea for her attempt. Now the young heir apparent of Athens, Theseus realized that the city had a terrible tax to pay to Crete: as punishment for the death of the Cretan king Minos’ son while in Athens, they had to send seven young men and seven young maidens to Crete to be eaten by the Minotaur every seven years. The Minotaur was a half-bull, half-man monster that lived in the Labyrinth, a giant maze underneath the palace of Knossos made by the master architect and inventor, Daedalus. Once the young people entered the Labyrinth, they could never find the way out, and eventually, the Minotaur found them and ate them. Theseus volunteered to be one of the seven young men, to Aegeus’ despair. Once Theseus arrived in Crete, the princess Ariadne fell in love with him and decided to help him. She gave him a spooled thread and told him to tie one end to the entrance of the Labyrinth, and one to always keep on him, so he could find the way out. Theseus followed her advice and after a fierce battle with the Minotaur, he managed to find his way out and eloped with Ariadne.